FLORIDA STATUTES - CHAPTER 83
LANDLORD AND TENANT

83.43 Landlord's obligation to maintain premises.

(1) The landlord at all times during the tenancy shall:
(a) Comply with the requirements of applicable building, housing, and health codes.
(b) Where there are no applicable building, housing, or health codes, maintain the roofs, windows, screens, doors, floors, steps, porches, exterior walls, foundations, and all other structural components in good repair and capable of resisting normal forces and loads and the plumbing in reasonable working condition.
(c) Maintain the premises in such a manner that the premises and any equipment thereon are reasonably fit for the use intended by the landlord and are not dangerous to the tenant or other persons on the premises.

(2) Unless otherwise agreed in writing, in addition to the requirements of subsection (1), the landlord of a dwelling unit other than a single-family home or duplex shall, at all times during the tenancy, make reasonable provisions for:
(a) The extermination of rats, mice, roaches, ants, wood-destroying organisms, and bedbugs.
(b) The clean and safe condition of common areas.
(c) Garbage removal and outside receptacles therefor.
(d) Functioning facilities for heat during winter, running water, and hot water.

83.49 Deposit money or advance rent; duty of landlord and tenant.

(1)(a) Whenever money is deposited or advanced by a tenant on a rental agreement as security for performance of the rental agreement or as advance rent for other than the next immediate rental period, the landlord or the landlord's agent shall either:
1. Hold the total amount of such money in a separate non-interest-bearing account in a Florida banking institution for the benefit of the tenant or tenants. The landlord shall not commingle such moneys with any other funds of the landlord or hypothecate, pledge, or in any other way make use of such moneys until such moneys are actually due the landlord.
2. Hold the total amount of such money in a separate interest-bearing account in a Florida banking institution for the benefit of the tenant or tenants, in which case the tenant shall receive and collect interest in an amount of at least 75 percent of the annualized average interest rate payable on such account or interest at the rate of 5 percent per year, simple interest, whichever the landlord elects.

(b) The landlord shall, within 30 days of receipt of advance rent or a security deposit, notify the tenant in writing of the manner in which the landlord is holding the advance rent or security deposit and the rate of interest, if any, which the tenant is to receive and the time of interest payments to the tenant.

83.56 Termination of rental agreement.

(1) A tenancy from year to year, or a tenancy of any specified period of time, ends without the necessity of notice at the expiration of the year or the specified period. A tenancy at will may be terminated by either party giving notice.

(2) A landlord or a tenant may terminate a tenancy without a specific term as follows:
(a) When the tenancy is from year to year, by giving not less than 60 days' notice prior to the end of any annual period.
(b) When the tenancy is from quarter to quarter, by giving not less than 30 days' notice prior to the end of any quarterly period.
(c) When the tenancy is from month to month, by giving not less than 15 days' notice prior to the end of any monthly period.
(d) When the tenancy is from week to week, by giving not less than 7 days' notice prior to the end of any weekly period.

83.60 Defenses to action for rent or possession; procedure.

(1) In an action by the landlord for possession of a dwelling unit based upon nonpayment of rent or in an action by the landlord under s. 83.55, the tenant may defend upon the ground of a material noncompliance with s. 83.51(1) or may raise any other defense, whether legal or equitable, that the tenant may have, including the defense of retaliatory conduct in accordance with s. 83.64.

(2) All defenses, counterclaims, and any other matter constituting an avoidance or affirmative defense shall be raised or be deemed waived.

83.63 Casualty damage.

If the premises are damaged or destroyed other than by the wrongful or negligent acts of the tenant so that the enjoyment of the premises is substantially impaired, the tenant may terminate the rental agreement and immediately vacate the premises. The tenant shall give written notice to the landlord within 20 days after such destruction or damage. If the rental agreement is terminated, the landlord shall comply with s. 83.49(3).
